README.md, before:

# Overview

This module creates a managed instance group of VM instances running
gilab-runner instances.  [Container Optimized OS][cos] images are used to
simplify updates and management of the Docker host.  [gitlab-runner][1] is
installed into the VM host (not as a container) and registered to gitlab via
[cloud-init][2].

# Example Usage

```terraform
variable "project" {
  description = "The instance group project"
}

variable "registration_token" {
  description = "The Gitlab registration token used to register this runner, found via /settings/ci_cd in the GitLab Web UI"
}

module gitlab-runner-public {
  name                  = "gitlab-runner-public"
  source                = "git::https://gitlab.com/openinfrastructure/code/terraform-google-gitlab-runner.git?ref=v0.1.0"
  project               = var.project
  registration_token    = var.registration_token
  tag-list              = ["docker", "gcp", "public"]
  service_account_email = "gitlab-runner-public@${var.project}.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
  machine_type          = "f1-micro"
}

module gitlab-runner-private {
  name                  = "gitlab-runner-private"
  source                = "git::https://gitlab.com/openinfrastructure/code/terraform-google-gitlab-runner.git?ref=v0.1.0"
  project               = var.project
  registration_token    = var.registration_token
  tag-list              = ["docker", "gcp", "private"]
  service_account_email = "gitlab-runner-private@${var.project}.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
  machine_type          = "f1-micro"
}
```

# Operational Playbook

## Update instances

Run terraform apply to update the instance teplate, then replace the instances
with new ones using:

```bash
gcloud compute instance-groups managed rolling-action replace gitlab-runner
```

# Logs

## cloud-init Logs

Container Optimizes OS uses systemd-journal for all logs.  Log into an instance
and run `sudo journalctl` to view system boot logs including cloud-init
execution steps.

[cos]: https://cloud.google.com/container-optimized-os/docs/how-to/run-container-instance
[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/
[2]: https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Commit message:

Add gitlab-runner-register systemd service
This unit file registers runners with the gitlab service during startup.
Similarly, all runners are unregistered during shutdown.  This is
intended to clean up in the 30 second window a pre-empted instance is
given to clean up.  The intent is to clean up during the [Preemption
process][3].

Registration and unregistration of the gitlab-runner service moves from
the cloud-init commands into a systemd unit file so that the
gitlab-runner service can depend on the gitlab-runner-register servce.
Systemd units also execute very fast on container optimized OS, so the
shutdown event is processed within seconds, well within the 30 second
window provided by the platform.

References for this change:

[systemd EnvironmentFile][1] is used to secure the registration token to
be readable only by root in the container host.  This also keeps the
token out of the `systemctl status gitlab-runner-register` output.

[RemainAfterExit][2]
Use RemainAfterExit=yes becasue the nature of registration and
unregistration fits the description: "Use RemainAfterExit for services
which somehow change state of the system. When you want that state
reverted, you just stop the service."

[1]: https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/using-environment-variables-in-systemd-units.html
[2]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38072849/when-should-the-option-remainafterexit-needs-to-be-set-true-when-creating-new-sy
[3]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/preemptible#preemption_process

README.md, after:

# Overview

This module creates a managed instance group of VM instances running
gitlab-runner instances.  [Container Optimized OS][cos] images are used to
simplify updates and management of the Docker host.  [gitlab-runner][1] is
installed into the VM host (not as a container) and registered to gitlab via
[cloud-init][2].

# Features

 1. Automatic gitlab-runner registration to gitlab.com
 2. Instances are preemptible by default, [reducing cost by 70 to
    80%][discount].
 2. Automatically unregister on [preemption][preemption], reboot, shutdown to
    clean up.
 3. Managed instance group automatically restarts preempted instances.
 4. Health checking against the gitlab-runner Prometheus metrics endpoint.
 5. Unhealthy instances are terminated and re-created.

# Example Usage

```terraform
variable "project" {
  description = "The instance group project"
}

variable "registration_token" {
  description = "The Gitlab registration token used to register this runner, found via /settings/ci_cd in the GitLab Web UI"
}

module gitlab-runner-public {
  name                  = "gitlab-runner-public"
  source                = "git::https://gitlab.com/openinfrastructure/code/terraform-google-gitlab-runner.git?ref=v0.1.0"
  project               = var.project
  registration_token    = var.registration_token
  tag-list              = ["docker", "gcp", "public"]
  service_account_email = "gitlab-runner-public@${var.project}.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
  machine_type          = "f1-micro"
}

module gitlab-runner-private {
  name                  = "gitlab-runner-private"
  source                = "git::https://gitlab.com/openinfrastructure/code/terraform-google-gitlab-runner.git?ref=v0.1.0"
  project               = var.project
  registration_token    = var.registration_token
  tag-list              = ["docker", "gcp", "private"]
  service_account_email = "gitlab-runner-private@${var.project}.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
  machine_type          = "f1-micro"
}
```

# Operational Playbook

## Update instances

Run terraform apply to update the instance template, then replace the instances
with new ones using:

```bash
gcloud compute instance-groups managed rolling-action replace gitlab-runner
```

# Logs

## cloud-init Logs

Container Optimizes OS uses systemd-journal for all logs.  Log into an instance
and run `sudo journalctl` to view system boot logs including cloud-init
execution steps.

[cos]: https://cloud.google.com/container-optimized-os/docs/how-to/run-container-instance
[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/
[2]: https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
[preempt]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/preemptible#preemption_process
[discount]: https://cloud.google.com/preemptible-vms/
